<br />
<div align="center">
<h1 align="center">Polycon</h1>

<p align="center">
Customizable and lightweight icon pack template for Android, built using Kotlin. 
<br />
<br />
<a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
·
<a href="https://github.com/kunal-ma/Polycon/issues">Issue Tracker</a>
·
<a href="#roadmap">Project Roadmap</a>
</p>
</div>

## Getting Started

You can download pre-built APKs, which include my curated selection of icons, from the [Releases](https://github.com/kunal-ma/Polycon/releases) page. Alternatively, you can build the project yourself and customize the icons to suit your preferences.

## Building the Project

### Clone the repo or download the [ZIP file](https://github.com/kunal-ma/polycon/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).

```sh
git clone https://github.com/kunal-ma/polycon.git
```

### Customizing the Icons

- The icons are stored in the `app/src/main/res/drawable` directory. You can add, remove or replace existing icons as needed.

  **Note** : To get icons from other icon packs, refer to `scripts/Extraction.md`.
  
- The icons must follow the following parameters:
  - The icon must be square in shape.
  - The icon must be in PNG format.
  - The icon must be 192x192 pixels in size.
  
- The icons must be named according to the following convention:
  - Lowercase letters only (e.g., `clock.png`)
  - To add spaces, use underscores (e.g., `google_pay.png`)

### Updating the XML Files

- **Option 1** : The `icon_list.py` script automates the process of updating the necessary XML files to reflect the changes made to the icons. To use the script, follow these steps:

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > The script requires Python to be installed on your system, and available in your PATH.

  - Add, remove or replace the icons to the `app/src/main/res/drawable` directory.

  - Run the following script via the terminal in the root directory of the project:

    ```sh
    python scripts/icon_list.py
    ```

- **Option 2** : Alternatively, you can manually update the XML files to reflect the changes made to the icons. The XML files and their corresponding entries are as follows:

  - `app/src/main/res/xml/drawable.xml`
  
    ```xml
    <item drawable="icon_name" />
    ```

  - `app/src/main/res/values/icon_pack.xml`

    ```xml
    <item>icon_name</item>
    ```
  
### Compiling the APK

- **Option 1** : You can build the APK using Android Studio. To do this, open the project in Android Studio and build the project using the `Build > Generate Signed Bundle / APK` option.
  
  > [!IMPORTANT]
  This method requires [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) with the Android SDK installed, as well as [keystores](https://developer.android.com/studio/publish/app-signing#generate-key) for signing the APK.

- **Option 2** : You can build the APK using the Gradle build system. To do this, perform the following steps:

    - Modify and add the following to `gradle.properties` file in the root directory of the project :
  
      ```gradle
      RELEASE_STORE_FILE= // path to your keystore
      RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD= // store password
      RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS= // alias
      RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD= // password
      ```

    - Add the following to the `app/build.gradle.kts` file in the `android` block:
  
      ```gradle
      signingConfigs {
          release {
              storeFile file(RELEASE_STORE_FILE)
              storePassword RELEASE_STORE_PASSWORD
              keyAlias RELEASE_KEY_ALIAS
              keyPassword RELEASE_KEY_PASSWORD
          }
      }
      buildTypes {
          release {
              signingConfig signingConfigs.release
          }
      }
      ```
    
    - Open the terminal in the root directory of the project, and run the following command:
  
      ```sh
      ./gradlew assembleRelease
      ```
    

- The APK will be generated by both options in the `app/build/outputs/apk/release` directory.

### Installation

Transfer the APK generated in the previous step, or downloaded from the Releases page, to your Android device. Install the APK on your device by opening the file in a file manager and following the on-screen instructions.

> [!WARNING]
> You may need to enable the installation of apps from unknown sources in your device settings. Moreover, Google Play Protect may warn you about the APK, as it is not available on the Play Store. You can safely ignore this warning and install the APK.

## Roadmap

- [ ] Splash Screen
- [ ] Icon Search
- [ ] Dashboard
  - [ ] Icon Request
  - [ ] Icon Counter
  - [ ] Light/Dark Mode

## Acknowledgements

Distributed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See `LICENSE` for more information.

Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**. If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. Thanks again :)